in 1987 trangle rinpoche founded shri
mongol Dawid boarding school near the
great stupa in the Kathmandu Valley of
Nepal it was open to serve the needs of
children from the home alia where there
are no schools they offer education
housing medical and dental care to
hundreds of mountain kids most of the
children are from the north of Nepal but
culturally and linguistically they are
Tibetan and their thinking is Buddhist
for centuries the teachings of the
Buddha have flourished without
interruption in the miles of Nepal
trango rinpoche who is our founder as a
refugee from tibet he came out of Tibet
in 1959 when the failed uprising
happened and the Communists took over he
escaped to India and eventually landed
up here in Nepal Nepal is one of the
countries who gave Tibetans safe harbor
Rinpoche found himself living in a
cowshed about two hours outside the
Katmandu Valley in an extremely poor
part of Nepal and although he'd lost
everything
he realized he was richer than anyone he
saw he could read and write
and he made the contract with himself
then that if he were ever in a position
to help he would offer education and
health to the poor and he spent the rest
of his life in exile here in Nepal doing
just that
yeah
in this
the school opened in 1987 we offer an
ordinary education for everybody a
secular education the monks and nuns get
an education in Buddhist philosophy and
ritual in the monastery and nunnery this
school is a unique school in the country
first of all unique in its nature and
because this is the only one school we
have none and the monk a student
together with the tastes color and the
boarding student and this children and
both boarding students they don't feel
uneasy to sit with the nun and the
monkey student together in this school
because this is school was opened by the
monk and they are not able to go home
because their home is very far from here
so they live here as long as they can
and after finishing their study they can
go home and then they can work for their
bliss so this is the unique School in
the country and the free education to
them everything is free nothing they
don't have to bring anything here
everything is free of cost every year we
take 50 to 60 student new student from
the village after finishing class 10
they go to class slave and outside we
don't have class living here we send
them outside for the higher education if
the students are very good we send them
abroad also for a higher education we
have already sent two of them one is in
Italy one is in Norway
trango Rinpoche's main aim in having
this school is to keep the language and
the culture and the way of life of
Buddhism alive in the north of Nepal
there are no schools there are no roads
there are no air strips there are no
hospitals there is nothing in the
mountain villages in some villages where
our children come from one in four
children lives to be five years old
they're dying of things like common
colds flu measles and chickenpox
education is far beyond these people's
reach however within education the
children have a way to make their ways
their way in life they are able to go
back to their villages and help their
people and the grand aim as we say we
Buddhists say the noble aim is to keep
the culture alive in the language and by
so doing keep the way of life that is
precious in the Himalayas the Buddhist
Wheel of Life alive for this reason His
Holiness the Dalai Lama has given us a
full support you can help by sponsoring
a child or donating directly to the
Sriman Gul Dawid boarding school please
visit our website at himalayan children
org and join us in furthering wrangle
rinpoche z' noble work we are on in a
strange position our kids are Buddhists
they speak Tibetan they look like
Tibetans and they dress like Tibetans
but their Nepali and they are not
refugees the world doesn't know about
their plight
you